Snapshot: 11:00EST (16:00 BST), April 30, 2013 (from phone meeting)(

Attending: 


Workshop preparation status
Current status on
	getting standard DB for testing and demo
		Manish working on dump; Public clinical data trails
		See also (in github, transmartApp-DB, postgresMigrate branch):
		https://github.com/transmart/transmartApp-DB/tree/postgresMigrate/postgresql_version
	ETL/Data Loading
		Clinical and Gene Expression data loaded (@ Imperial) with old scripts; updating
	Core development
		Documentation of API, looking for tools (minimal -> JavaDoc) Kees
		Document data schema and ETL, and too gtihub Ami 
	API work/status
		Manish, Michael, mapping of I2B2 to API core-API (tests to be sent out)
		API "sub committee"
			working on new API for high dimensional data: 
				Manish, Gustavo, Michael, and TBD from Imperial

-------------
Previous Notes:

	- discussion of testing
		review of https://ci.ctmmtrait.nl/browse/TM-TMF-22
		types of tests: unit test, integration tests, web tests
		integration testing requires:
			a working public server 
			working pubic test data (for example, the conversion of the GEO data from transmartApp 1.0)
			GEO studies from 1.0 (get accession numbers?)
			Stabilizing the database schema (as grails domain classes)
			ETL for loading data (microarray and clinical working)
			Missing SNP data (J&J working on this)
	- opportunity for GUI testing
		gui test scripts (paper version)
		automation of these scripts (or scripts like them)
		using Selenium: 
		
		
	- review of current efforts

	Umich current unit test; as data is available the integrations test
	Imperial, data loading; GUI interface into test
	

A review of the current efforts
   UMich
*     domain object review (coverage); and unit test; API demo
*     still working on Jira 
   Imperial (and University of Luxembourg on ETL)
	  loading data for search app; may be missing tables!!
		Where does compound and pathway data go (in the database)?
      ETL loading
        focus on clinical data
		currently loading Genomics data
*       This is priority!
		Getting help and data dump from Recombinant (Manish)
 	Problems with user name/configuration tables
*       Ontologies not working on interface
      Work with theHyve on core after Easter
   theHyve
	  ETL - made several corrections to the tables (in PostgreSQL) to support the ETL process
	  Problems with Clinical Data
      coreIntegration branch (working on CRC API)
        i2b2 factored out! (that is "hidden behind the API")
*       implementation of CRC-from-i2b2 involves learning meaning of tables
	some issues surrounding security (needs review!)
          bug exists that hides ontology tree if not admin??
          non-admin users "should" see ontology tree grayed out
	  (in review by Manish; et al)
        Notes on API (CRC):
	  notes can be attached "anywhere"; not used much in current GUI
      problems with postgreSQL with respect to
        images
    RModules addition
	  analysis R routines in theHyve github
	see PULL REQUST at transmartApp
      looking at the "job execution" part of Transmart; Galexy/Chipster as a candidate
	  Grid scheduling 
	  Working with high-performance center at Amsterdam

Next tasks (future directions)
  REMINDER: unit tests!
  API for analysis part of dataset explore (including job execution)
    who are the users? workflow? stories? roles?
    plugin framework?
  API high dimensional data
  
  GUI improvements
    examination of XJS?
    identify API?
    who are the users? workflow? stories? roles?
      some work on this at BioIT World
    what role SPOTFIRE?
    
  J&J "facited search" integration into TrasnmartApp (more information post BioIT World)
  API for search (depends on the update of the search page; and inclusion of the new search)
        
Update/add goals and Identify early milestones
Expand/Create tasks list

Process (phone call, communications, coordination)
 What's working?
 Where are there problems?
 What fixes?

